# TrafficDetection
A Matlab code to detect active traffic light color according to the RGB channels of the image. then it makes segmentation to the image according to the detected image. if the traffic light is red then it detects that the color is red and then makes segmentation to the image so it makes the whole image black except for the red color that it has detected so far. And it does the same thing for yellow and green colors. Detection then segmentation.
I have used Matlab GUI buttons each button is pointing to an image. Detect 1 button is pointing to the image with active green color, Detect 2 button is pointing to the image with active yellow color and Detect 3 button is pointing to the image with active Red color.
 Each button has an action of calling a function that is responsible to read the image we want. the function detect is used to separate the Red, green and blue channels of an image,
 then it set a threshold of 50 for all channels, and counts the number of pixels in each channel that have values greater than the threshold. It then calculates the percentage of pixels in each channel that meet this criterion.
 Finally, it compares the values of red, green and blue. if red>green & blue then it calls the segmentation method of the red color. if the green>red & blue then it may be yellow or green that's why we also compare the green level if it is> 91 then it calls the segmentation method of the green color and if it is < 91 it calls the segmentation method of the yellow color.
 The image color segmentation is too simple we first got the x and y ranges of the image by using impixelinfo to see the ranges of the color we want to save and convert any other color to black so, it loops around the pixels of the image and compares it to the ranges of x and y that we have determined from the image so for the red color segmentation if the red layer x & y ranges are < 160 it will be converted to black and if it's green layer x & y is >110 or the blue layer x & y is > 100 it will also be converted to black which at the end make the image all black except for the red color in the image because the red color range of x & y in the image is not in the ranges of x & y in R, G and B. the same thing is done for the segmentation of yellow and green color but with different ranges of x & y in R, G and B.
